
## UGC NET Management December 2018 (humanperitus)

**1. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": The stakeholder model can be used as a tool for managers, who are asked to handle the stakeholders relations as a guide to achieve ultimate goals.**
**Reason "R": Corporation is an economic institution which has a social service as well as a profit making function while shareholder control is similar to Adam Smith's 'invisible hand' argument.**
**Codes:**

(A) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct and “R” is the right explanation of "A"

(D) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

---
**2. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": In the 21s century we are going to need a new generation of leaders; not managers.**
**Reason “R”: Leadership is about developing a vision of the future rather than just aligning people by communicating this vision and inspiring them to overcome hurdles.**
**Codes:**

(A) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct and “R” is the right explanation of “A”.

(D) Both “A” and “R” are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

---
**3. Indicate the correct code for appropriate combination of the following that constitutes the form of price discriminating strategy:**
**(i) Postage stamp pricing**
**(ii) Basing point pricing**
**(iii) Incremental pricing**
**(iv) Free on Board pricing**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (iii) and (iv)

(B) Only (i), (ii) and (iii)

(C) Only (i), (ii) and (iv)

(D) Only (ii), (iii) and (iv)

---
**4. Indicate the code for proper sequencing for the process of venture capital financing from the following:**
**1. Deal origination**
**2. Due diligence**
**3. Screening**
**4. Deal structuring**
**5. Exit plan**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) (i), (iii), (ii), (iv), (v)

(B) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v)

(C) (i), (ii), (iv), (iii), (v)

(D) (i), (iv), (ii), (iii), (v)

---
**5. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**(a) Mean forecast error**
**(b) Mean absolute deviation**
**(c) Mean square error**
**(d) Mean absolute percent error**
**List II**
**(i) Mean of absolute deviations of forecast demands from actual demand values**
**(ii) Mean of the squares of the deviations of forecast demands from actual demand values**
**(iii) Mean of the deviations of the forecast demands from actual demand**
**(iv) Mean of the percent deviations of the forecast demands from the actual demand**
**Codes:**

1. (a)-(iii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iii), (d)-(iv)

2. (a)-(ii), (b)-(iii), (c)-(i), (d)-(iv)

3. (a)-(i), (b)-(iii), (c)-(iv), (d)-(ii)

4. (a)-(iv), (b)-(i), (c)-(ii), (d)-(iii)

(A) 1

(B) 2

(C) 3

(D) 4

---
**6. A Union security agreement aims at?**

(A) making jobs secure for members of the union.

(B) recognition of union by employer.

(C) determining the extent to which the agreement protects the union in holding its membership and collecting its dues.

(D) getting more benefits from an organisation.

---
**7. The following two statements relate to probability distributions. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: When 'p' and 'q' are equal in the binomial distribution, the shape of the distribution is perfectly symmetrical irrespective of the size of 'n'**
**Statement II: The mean and the variance of Poisson distribution are not equal.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(C) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(D) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

---
**8. The following two statements relate to financial derivatives. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: When an option is allowed to be exercised only on the maturity date, it is called an American option.**
**Statement II: If the option holder does not lose or gain whether he exercises his option or buys or sells the asset from the market, the option is said to be at-the-money.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(C) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(D) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

---
**9. Which among the following is not a broader classification of motivation?**

(A) Unitary motivation

(B) Negative motivation

(C) Positive motivation

(D) Monetary motivation

---
**10. Indicate the correct code for the points taken into consideration for product line pricing from the following:**
**1.Demand relationships of different products**
**2.Competitive situation in the product market**
**3. Advertising endeavours for different products**
**4. Cost estimates for various products**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (i), (ii) and (iv)

(B) Only (i), (ii) and (iii)

(C) Only (ii) and (iii)

(D) Only (ii), (iii) and (iv)

---
**11. Suppose, it is calculated that 'a' is 4 and 'b' is 2 for a particular estimating line with one independent variable. If the independent variable has a value of 5, what value should be expected for the dependent variable?**

(A) 6

(B) 11

(C) 22

(D) 14

---
**12. Which of the following is the reference of dispute to an agreed third party without the force of litigation or resort to law?**
**1. Conciliation**
**2. Arbitration**
**3. Adjudication**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (i)

(B) Both (i) and (ii)

(C) Both (i) and (iii)

(D) Only (ii)

---
**13. Indicate the correct combination of the financial decisions from**
**1. Investment decisions**
**2. Financing decisions**
**3. Pricing decisions**
**4. Liquidity management decisions**
**5. Dividend decisions**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v)

(B) Only (i), (ii) and (iii)

(C) Only (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)

(D) Only (i), (ii), (iv) and (v)

---
**14. The optimum capital structure is supported by which combination of the following?**
**1. Traditional theory**
**2. Net income theory**
**3. Pecking order theory**
**4. Net operating income theory**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (i), (ii) and (iii)

(B) Only (i), (ii) and (iv)

(C) Only (ii), (iii) and (iv)

(D) Only (i), (iii) and (iv)

---
**15. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**a) Floating forex rate**
**b) Translation effect of change in forex rate**
**c) Transaction effect of change in forex rate**
**d) Geocentric solution in financial and planning control.**
**List II**
**i) Get the best out of extreme centralistaion and decentralization in finance decision and execution**
**ii) Influences time lag in receipt of cash against foreign currency dominated invoices**
**iii) Influences the valuation of financial statements and reported items**
**iv) Triggers problems of appreciation or depreciation of currencies.**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(iv), (b)-(iii), (c)-(ii), (d)-(i)

(B) (a)-(iii), (b)-(i), (c)-(ii), (d)-(iv)

(C) (a)-(i), (b)-(iv), (c)-(ii), (d)-(iii)

(D) (a)-(iv), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iii), (d)-(i)

---
**16. The following statements relate to Restrictive Trade Practices (RTP). Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: Often the low price is the result of the predatory pricing strategy; prompting selling at prices below cost.**
**Statement II: This is done with an aim to drive out existing competitors because predatory pricing is a restrictive trade practice.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(B) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect

(C) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(D) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

---
**17. Firms normally finance the working capital needs as per which combination of the following?**
**1.Trade credit**
**2.Bank finance**
**3.Commercial papers**
**4. Factoring**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (i), (ii) and (iii)

(B) Only (ii), (iii) and (iv)

(C) Only (i), (iii) and (iv)

(D) Only (ii) and (iv)

---
**18. Which one of the following types of retailers is "D Mart"?**

(A) Discount store

(B) Convenience store

(C) Super market

(D) Catalogue store

---
**19. Indicate the correct code from the following types of the long run average cost curves on which the minimum average cost of production in long run can be determined:**
**i. Long run average cost curve under normal production function**
**ii. long run average cost curve under linearly homogeneous production function**
**iii. Planning curve**
**iv. Envelope curve**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (ii), (iii) and (iv)

(B) Only (i), (ii) and (iii)

(C) Only (i), (iii) and (iv)

(D) Only (ii) and (iv)

---
**20. Choose the correct code for the following statements being correct or incorrect**
**Statement I: Companies generally do not prefer low cost debt financing.**
**Statement II: Raising debts requires credit rating and payment of interest even if companies suffer losses.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(B) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(C) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(D) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

---
**21. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": The nominal interest rate comprises of a real interest rate and an expected rate of inflation, and it adjusts when the inflation rate is expected to change. Hence, in the perfect international capital markets, real rate of returns are equal in the two countries.**
**Reason "R": The international Fisher Effect states that the nominal interest rate differential must be equal to the expected inflation rate differential in two countries.**
**Codes:**

(A) "A" is correct but “R” is not correct.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct but "R" is not the right explanation of “A”.

(D) Both “A” and “R” are correct and “R” is the right explanation of "A".

---
**22. 'Gang plank' breaks which one of the following?**

(A) Cross Communications

(B) Mass communication

(C) Scalar chain

(D) Vertical communication

---
**23. Which one of the following is considered as a threat to database and DBMS?**

(A) Unauthorised access

(B) Log of system failures

(C) Insertion of viruses

(D) Firewalls

---
**24. Which one of the following relates to products or services for which consumers will spend a fair amount of time comparing alternatives?**

(A) Unsought products/services

(B) Shopping products/services

(C) Convenience products/services

(D) Speciality products/services

---
**25. Who pays the lay-off compensation to a workman?**

(A) State Government

(B) Central Government

(C) Employer

(D) Employees State Insurance Corporation

---
**26. Match the items of List I with the items of List 11 and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**(a) Cycle stock**
**(b) Transit stock**
**(c) Buffer Stock**
**(d) Safety stock**
**List II**
**(i) Hedge against the possibility stockout**
**(ii) Stock to meet inventory cycle**
**(iii) Stock moved between various elements of supply chain**
**(iv) Extra stock to meet fluctuations in demand**

(A) (a)-(iii), (b)-(ii), (c)-(i), (d)-(iv)

(B) (a)-(iv), (b)-(iii), (c)-(i), (d)-(ii)

(C) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iii), (c)-(i), (d)-(iv)

(D) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iii), (c)-(iv), (d)-(i)

---
**27. Which among the following concepts is not related to product design?**

(A) Concurrent engineering

(B) Reverse engineering

(C) Enterprise resource planning

(D) Standardisation

---
**28. Choose the correct code for the following statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: An Intrapreneur is a person within a large corporation who takes direct responsibility for turning an idea into a profitable finished product through assertive risk-taking and innovation.**
**Statement II: Intrapreneurship refers to employee initiatives in organizations to undertake something new, without being asked to do so**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement I is correct but II is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(C) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(D) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

---
**29. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": Cultural differences, behavioural attitude of workers, social environment, values and beliefs affect industrial relations and loyalty.**
**Reason "R": Differences relating to labour mobility and cultural influences affect the way of addressing the superior authority.**
**Codes:**

(A) "A" is corrects but "R" is incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(C) Both "A" and “R” are correct and “R” is the right explanation of "A"

(D) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

---
**30. A public limited company has shares outstanding at current market price of Rs. 130 per share. The company needs Rs. 2.25 crores to finance its proposed new project. The board of the company has decided to issue rights shares to raise the required money at Rs. 75 per share (as subscription price) to ensure that the rights issue is fully subscribed, How many rights are required to purchase a new share?**

(A) Three rights

(B) One right

(C) Two rights

(D) Four rights

---
**31. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": As per M-M hypothesis the value of the levered firm is equal to the value of the unlevered firm.**
**Reason "R": The process of arbitrage becomes applicable in such situations.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both "A" and "R" are correct and "R" is the right explanation of “A”.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(C) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

(D) Both "A" and “R” are correct, but “R” is not the right explanation of “A”.

---
**32. In the context of economic groupings, which among the following, is not applicable to common market?**

(A) Removal of tariff barriers on Intra-trade

(B) Harmonisation of economic policies

(C) Free movement of labour and capital

(D) Common external tariff

---
**33. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": A price reduction leads to an increase in the quantity demanded of the commodity.**
**Reason "R": It results from price effects comprising income and substitution effects which are always positive.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct and "R" is the right explanation of "A".

(D) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

---
**34. The following statements relate to project network. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: An activity cannot be represented by more than one arrow, but an arrow can represent one or more activities.**
**Statement II: The activities in a critical path can be preponed or postponed.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(B) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

(C) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(D) Both the statements I and II are correct.

---
**35. Which one of the following cases is the case of conglomerate merger?**

(A) Vodafone India and Idea Cellular Ltd.

(B) Renusagar Power Supply and Hindalco

(C) Brooke Bond and Lipton with Hindustan Lever

(D) Godrej Soaps with loss-making Godrej Innovative Chemicals

---
**36. Which of the following statements relating to Tests of Hypothesis are correct? Select the correct code**
**Statement I: Type-I error occurs when true null hypothesis gets rejected by the test.**
**Statement II: Beta value denotes the of the test.**
**Statement III: To test the significance of the goodness of fit of a distribution, F-test is applied.**
**Statement IV: When Ho: µm> µf two-tailed test is applied for testing the hypothesis.**
**Statement V: The critical value of Z-statistic for two-tailed test at 5% level of significance is 1.96**

(A) IV and V

(B) I and V

(C) III and IV

(D) II and III

---
**37. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": Growing proportion of the world output is traded internationally, causing faster growth of trade among nations.**
**Reason "R": This situation is bringing world economic integration, which is reinforced by cross-border capital flows and regional blocs.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both "A" and “R” are correct, but “R” is not the right explanation of “A”.

(B) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

(C) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(D) Both "A" and "R" are correct and "R" is the right explanation of "A".

---
**38. Which among the following is also known as 'Cross Contact' communication?**

(A) Intra-scalar communication

(B) Inter-scalar communication

(C) Extra-organization communication

(D) Concealed communication

---
**39. In case there is a rise in general price level along with a declining output is called**

(A) Supply push inflation

(B) Stagflation

(C) Inflation

(D) Deflation

---
**40. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": The United Nations' Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change has concluded that there is a discernible human influence on the global climate.**
**Reason "R": The United Nations' Groups conclusions are unformed; some experts differ and say that a reliable estimate of the human imprint's magnitude remains a distance off.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both "A" and "R" are correct and "R" is the right explanation of “A”.

(B) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

(D) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

---
**41. Explain the nutritional values of different foods" is an objective of which one of the following social marketing programmes?**

(A) Action campaigns

(B) Behavioural campaigns

(C) Value campaigns

(D) Cognitive campaigns

---
**42. In which one of the following product life cycle stages a firm improves product quality and adds new features and improved styling?**

(A) Growth stage

(B) Decline stage

(C) Maturity stage

(D) Introduction stage

---
**43. As per the provisions of the Factories Acts 1948, match the items of List I and List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**(a) Cool drinking water during hot season**
**(b) Employment of safety officer**
**(c) First aid box**
**(d) Ambulance room**
**List II**
**(i) 150 workers**
**(ii) More than 250 workers**
**(iii) More than 500 workers**
**(iv) 1000 or more workers**

(A) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iv), (c)-(i), (d)-(iii)

(B) (a)-(i), (b)-(iv), (c)-(iii), (d)-(ii)

(C) (a)-(iv), (b)-(iii), (c)-(ii), (d)-(i)

(D) (a)-(i), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iii), (d)-(iv)

---
**44. There are 'm' number of favourable cases to event A and n- are non-favourable cases, both are equally likely and mutually exclusive, the probability of occurring the event A is P(A).**
**P(A) = m/(m+n)**
**This formula corresponds to which one of the following approaches to probability?**

(A) Statistical approach to probability

(B) Subjective approach to probability

(C) Classical approach to probability

(D) Modern approach to probability

---
**45. A manufacturing company has an expected usage of 50,000 units of a certain product during next year. The cost of processing an order is 20 and the carrying cost per unit is Rs. 0.50 for one year. What will be the Economic Ordering Quantity?**

(A) 2500 units

(B) 2000 units

(C) 1500 units

(D) 1000 units

---
**46. The following statements relate to decision tree analysis. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: A decision tree contains the probabilities of outcomes and the conditional monetary values attached to those outcomes.**
**Statement II: In a decision tree, 'nodes' at the left represent actions that occur before nodes that fall farther to the right.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(B) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(C) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(D) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

---
**47. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I (Macro strategies for developing customer value)**
**(a) Customer excellence**
**(b) Operational excellence**
**(c) Product excellence**
**(d) Locational excellence**
**List II (Specific strategy)**
**(i) Store on the corner of a busy intersection**
**(ii) Unique merchandise**
**(iii) Strong relationships with their suppliers**
**(iv) Effective branding**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(ii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iii), (d)-(iv)

(B) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iii), (c)-(i), (d)-(iv)

(C) (a)-(i), (b)-(iii), (c)-(iv), (d)-(ii)

(D) (a)-(iv), (b)-(i), (c)-(ii), (d)-(iii)

---
**48. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**(a) Fabian Entrepreneurs**
**(b) Drone Entrepreneurs**
**(c) Imitating Entrepreneurs**
**(d) Innovative Entrepreneurs**
**List II**
**(i) Industry leaders**
**(ii) Found in the places where there is a lack of resources**
**(iii) Reluctant to change**
**(iv) Sceptical about the changes to be made in the organization**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(iv), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iii), (d)-(i)

(B) (a)-(iv), (b)-(iii), (c)-(ii), (d)-(i)

(C) (a)-(iii), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iv), (d)-(i)

(D) (a)-(i), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iv), (d)-(iii)

---
**49. Monopoly situation in the market is not desirable mainly because the monopolist**

(A) seeks to earn net revenue on the sale of all goods including those involving no cost of production

(B) is able to charge different prices from different categories of buyers

(C) will produce below its economic capacity level when it exhibits satisfaction with the normal profit only.

(D) is able to earn net revenue in all time periods

---
**50. Indicate the correct code for discounted cash flow techniques for capital investment proposals from the following:**
**1.Net Present Value Method**
**2. Internal Rate of Return method**
**3. Excess Benefit-Cost Ratio method**
**4.Net Terminal Value method**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below :**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (ii), (iii) and (iv)

(B) Only (i), (ii) and (iii)

(C) Only (ii) and (iv)

(D) Only (i) and (ii)

---
**51. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": Archie Carroll's model speaks of an organisations four most basic forms of responsibility in order of priority.**
**Reason "R": Economic, legal, ethical, philanthropic responsibilities and their compliance increases brand value and furthers the profit.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and “R” are correct and "R" is the right explanation of "A"

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

(D) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

---
**52. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**(a) Cadbury Committee**
**(b) Clause 49 of listing agreement**
**(c) Minimum number of specified board meetings a year**
**(d) Whistle blowing**
**List II**
**(i) SEBI regulation**
**(ii) Code of best practices**
**(iii) Ethics**
**(iv) Companies Act, 2013**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(ii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iv), (d)-(iii)

(B) (a)-(iv), (b)-(iii), (c)-(ii), (d)-(i)

(C) (a)-(ii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iii), (d)-(iv)

(D) (a)-(i), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iii), (d)-(iv)

---
**53. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**List I (Role of Manager)**
**a) Informational role**
**b) Interpersonal role**
**c) Decisional role**
**List II (Functions of Manager)**
**(i) Figure head, leader, liaison**
**(ii) Disturbance handler, resource allocator, negotiator**
**(iii) Disseminator, monitors spokesperson**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(iii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iii)

(B) (a)-(i), (b)-(iii), (c)-(ii)

(C) (a)-(ii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iii)

(D) (a)-(iii), (b)-(ii), (c)-(i)

---
**54. The following two statements relate to Capital Asset Pricing Model, Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: Beta is a measure of a security's risk relative to the risk of the market portfolio.**
**Statement II: The value of Beta measures both the systematic and the unsystematic risks of a security.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(C) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(D) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

---
**55. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": Luxury brands command price premiums and do not have a strong lifestyle component.**
**Reason "R": Luxury brands do not require any special considerations in how they are sold.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but “R” is not the right explanation of "A”.

(C) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

(D) Both "A" and "R" are correct and “R” is the right explanation of "A".

---
**56. The following statements are related to technology transfer between countries. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: Import of techniques and machinery is a mode of technology transfer.**
**Statement II: Technology transferred through government for common welfare is considered as free market transfer and is not subject to patent laws.**
**Code:**

(A) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(B) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

(C) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(D) Both the statements I and II are correct.

---
**57. Which of the following statements is/are true?**
**1.The concept of wage boards was first enunciated by the Minimum Wage Committee.**
**2. A wage board is bipartite in character.**
**3. Representatives of employers and workers on wage board are appointed by the government after consulting the concerned organisations**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) Only (ii)

(B) (i), (ii) and (iii)

(C) Both (i) and (ii)

(D) Only (iii)

---
**58. The following statements relate to sampling distributions. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: Sampling distribution of mean is normally distributed irrespective of the type of population distribution and size of samples.**
**Statement II: The standard deviation of the sampling distribution of mean is less than the standard deviation of the population distribution.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both the statements I and II are correct

(B) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(C) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(D) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

---
**59. Arrange the following steps of disciplinary procedure in the correct sequence:**
**1. Issue a charge sheet**
**2. Notice of enquiry**
**3. Suspension pending enquiry**
**4. Conduct of enquiry**
**5. Awarding punishment**
**6. Communicating punishment**
**7. Preliminary investigation**
**8. Recording of findings**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) (ii), (vii), (iii), (viii), (iv), (vi), (v)

(B) (ii), (iii), (iv), (vi), (vii), (viii)

(C) (vii), (ii), (iii), (iv), (vi), (v), (viii)

(D) (vii), (iii), (ii), (iv), (viii), (vi)

---
**60. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion “A”: Identification and detection of sickness at incipient stage is the first and foremost measure to reduce industrial sickness-**
**Reason “R”: Sickness in small scale industries is not a sudden phenomenon but it is a gradual process taking 5 to 7 years eroding the health of a unit beyond cure.**
**Codes:**

(A) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

(B) "A" is correct, but “R” is incorrect.

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct and "R" is the right explanation of “A”.

(D) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

---
**61. A situation where prosperity of one sector leads to the neglect of other sectors is referred to**

(A) Spanish disease phenomenon

(B) Dutch disease phenomenon

(C) French disease phenomenon

(D) British disease phenomenon

---
**62. 'Sons of the soil' policy is associated with**

(A) Induction

(B) Discharge or Dismissal

(C) Recruitment

(D) Promotion

---
**63. Which of the following are the components of international logistics?**
**(i) Fixed facilities location**
**(ii) inventory management**
**(iii) Order processing**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) (ii) and (iii)

(B) (i) and (ii)

(C) (i) and (iii)

(D) (i), (ii) and (iii)

---
**64. The following two statements relate to receivables management. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: The major controllable decision variables for deciding the credit policy are the credit standards and analysis and the credit terms only.**
**Statement II: Factoring is a popular mechanism of managing, financing and collecting receivables.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(C) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect,

(D) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

---
**65. The following statements relate to transnationality. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: The UNCTAD developed an index to compare the transnationality of countries in which TNCs operate.**
**Statement II: The UNCTAD followed parameters like FDI flow as a percentage of gross fixed capital formation, FDI inward stock, value added by foreign affiliates and jobs created by them.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(C) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(D) Both the statements I and II are correct.

---
**66. Who among the following are associated with the concept of “Entrepreneurship"?**
**1.Richard Cantillon**
**2. Lionel Robbins**
**3. Adam Smith**
**4.Jean-Baptiste Say**
**5.Joseph Schumpeter**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) (i), (ii),(iv) and (v)

(B) (i), (iii), (iv) and (v)

(C) (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v)

(D) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)

---
**67. Who among the following propounded ERG Theory of Motivation?**
**Options**

(A) McClelland

(B) Alderfer

(C) Locke

(D) Skinner

---
**68. Arrange the operations in production planning and control in correct sequence:**
**1. Routing**
**2. Dispatching**
**3. Follow up**
**4. Scheduling**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

1. (iv), (i), (iii), (ii)

2. (i), (iii), (ii), (iv)

3. (i), (iv), (ii), (iii)

4. (ii), (iv), (iii), (i)

(A) 1

(B) 2

(C) 3

(D) 4

---
**69. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**(a) X chart**
**(b) P chart**
**(c) C chart**
**(d) R chart**
**List II**
**(i) Number of defects**
**(ii) Variations between samples**
**(iii) Variations within samples**
**(iv) Proportion of defectives**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(iv), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iii), (d)-(i)

(B) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iv), (c)-(i), (d)-(iii)

(C) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iv), (c)-(iii), (d)-(i)

(D) (a)-(iv), (b)-(ii), (c)-(i), (d)-(iii)

---
**70. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion and the other labelled as Reason. Read the statements and choose the correct answer using the code given below.**
**Assertion "A": The World Investment Report has prepared a transnationality index comprising average of three ratios based on foreign assets, foreign sales, foreign employment.**
**Reason "R": Given the increasing liberal investment and environment policy in which such companies operate, transnationality would enhance strategy for greater penetration.**
**Codes:**

(A) "A" is correct but "R" is incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are correct, but "R" is not the right explanation of "A".

(C) Both "A" and "R" are correct and "R" is the right explanation of “A”.

(D) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

---
**71. Various bodies in the organisational structure of WTO are given below. On the basis of decision making authority, arrange them from top to bottom and indicate the correct code.**
**1.General Council**
**2. Ministerial Conference**
**3. Specialised Committees**
**4.Council for Trade in Goods**
**Choose the correct answer from the code given below:**
**Codes:**

(A) (i), (ii), (iv), (iii)

(B) (ii), (i), (iv), (iii)

(C) (i), (ii), (ii), (iv)

(D) (iv), (i), (ii), (iii)

---
**72. In the context of industrial relations, match the items of List with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**(a) Conflict between managers and workers is normal and inescapable**
**(b) Both management and workers see each other as less reliable**
**(c) There is a power relationship between the two classes**
**List II**
**(i) Psychological approach**
**(ii) Pluralistic approach**
**(iii) Marxist approach**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(i), (b)-(ii), (c)-(iii)

(B) (a)-(ii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iii)

(C) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iii), (c)-(i)

(D) (a)-(iii), (b)-(ii), (c)-(i)

---
**73. Choose the correct code for the following statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Assertion "A": Attitude develops over a period of time.**
**Reason “R”: Attitudes are specific whereas values form a broader and more encompassing concept.**
**Codes:**

(A) "R" is correct, but "A" is incorrect.

(B) Both "A" and "R" are correct.

(C) "A" is correct, but "R" is incorrect.

(D) Both "A" and "R" are incorrect.

---
**74. The following two statements relate to industrial sickness- Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: The Sick Industrial Companies Act (SICA) was enacted to address a chronic problem of industrial sickness in the Indian economy.**
**Statement II: SICA defined a sick industrial unit as one that had existed for at least three years and had incurred accumulated losses equal to its entire net worth at the end of any financial year.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(C) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(D) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

---
**75. The following statements relate to value based organisations. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: People differ in their choice of values, the enforcement of one group's value on an individual is an ethical issue. Still there is a good deal of commonality in the values that businesses hold.**
**Statement II: Ethical codes are statements of the norms and beliefs of an organisation which are proposed, discussed and defined by the management of the firm which is then published and distributed-**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(B) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

(C) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(D) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

---
**76. Which one of the following is not resorted to while issuing new securities in the market?**

(A) Stock option

(B) Offer for sale

(C) Book building

(D) Placement on stock exchanges

---
**77. Which among the following statements is not true relating to 'Crawling Peg System' of exchange rate?**

(A) It was introduced by IMF in 1971.

(B) It takes a position in between the fixed exchange rate system and the flexible exchange rate system.

(C) It allows a narrow margin of fluctuations as compared to adjustable peg system.

(D) It was introduced as an alternative to the adjustable peg system

---
**78. The following statements relate to social media. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: Social media does not allow users to interact among themselves.**
**Statement II: Social media helps facilitate the consumers decision process by encouraging need recognition, information search, alternative evaluation, purchase and post purchase reviews.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement I is correct, but Il is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

(C) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(D) Both the statements I and II are correct.

---
**79. The given statements are related to financial derivatives. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect.**
**Statement I: A speculator will gain, if he sells foreign currency under a forward contract, when the spot price is higher than the forward price.**
**Statement II: In currency futures, intra currency spread exists when a speculator buys/sells the same currency for two delivery dates.**
**Codes:**

(A) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(B) Both the statements I and II are Incorrect.

(C) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(D) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect.

---
**80. The following statements relate to value based organisations. Choose the correct code for the statements being correct or incorrect,**
**Statement I: The goal of any sales promotion is to create value for both the consumer and the firm.**
**Statement II: Sales promotion always shifts sales from the future to now and thereby leads to short-run benefits at the expense of long-term sales stability.**
**Codes**

(A) Both the statements I and II are correct.

(B) Statement II is correct, but I is incorrect.

(C) Statement I is correct, but II is incorrect,

(D) Both the statements I and II are incorrect.

---
**81. Which among the following is not a correct statement?**

(A) In latent conflict, although the parties to the conflict realise the fact of conflict for various reasons but they do not show it openly.

(B) There is a potential ground for perceived conflict to turn into reality.

(C) Manifest conflict is always documented.

(D) Manifest conflict in an open conflict.

---
**82. Match the items of List I with the items of List II and choose the correct answer from the code given below.**
**List I**
**a) Demographic**
**b) Psychographic**
**c) Benefits**
**d) Behaviuoral**
**List II**
**i) Self values**
**ii) Convenience**
**iii) Gender**
**iv) Loyalty**
**Codes:**

(A) (a)-(iii), (b)-(i), (c)-(iii), (d)-(iv)

(B) (a)-(iii), (b)-(ii), (c)-(i), (d)-(iv)

(C) (a)-(ii), (b)-(iv), (c)-(iii), (d)-(i)

---
