**1. Consider a demand curve which takes the form of a straight-line cutting both axes. Elasticity at the mid-point of the line would be**

(A) 0

(B) 1.0

(C) 1.5

(D) 2.0

---

**2. Price taker firms**

(A) Advertise to increase the demand for their product

(B) Do not advertise, because most advertising is wasteful.

(C) Do not advertise because they can sell as much as they want at the current price.

(D) Who advertise will get more profits than those who do not.

---

**3. OPEC is an example of the type of producer’s organisation known as a**

(A) Marketing Board

(B) Producer’s Co-operative

(C) Trust

(D) Cartel

---

**4. Match the following : List – I vs List – II. I. Responsiveness of demand to change in price - 1. Income elasticity of demand. II. Responsiveness of demand to change in tastes - 2. Price elasticity of demand. III. Responsiveness of demand to change in income - 3. Cross elasticity of demand. IV. Responsiveness of demand to change in price of related goods - 4. Taste elasticity of demand. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 1 2 3 4

(B) 4 3 1 2

(C) 3 4 2 1

(D) 2 4 1 3

---

**5. Opportunity costs are also known as**

(A) Spill-over costs

(B) Money costs

(C) Alternative costs

(D) Sunk costs

---

**6. Employees with high self-esteem set**

(A) higher goals for others

(B) higher goals for themselves and lower goals for others

(C) higher goals for themselves

(D) None of the above

---

**7. Need for achievement goes with**

(A) F.W. Taylor

(B) Hertzberg

(C) McGregor

(D) McClelland

---

**8. An organizational memory includes the following except**

(A) Information that employees possess

(B) Knowledge embedded in the organisation’s systems and structures

(C) Documents

(D) Knowledge that is not documented

---

**9. People should be held accountable for their own behaviour, and if holding people accountable for their own behaviour entails capital punishment, then so be it. However, no person should be held accountable for behaviour of others over which he or she had no control. Which of the following is the most logical conclusion of the argument above ?**

(A) People should not be held accountable for the behaviour of other people.

(B) People have control over their behaviour.

(C) People cannot control the behaviour of other people.

(D) Behaviour that cannot be controlled should not be punished.

---

**10. Nominal group technique is**

(A) a consensus planning tool, generally used by groups to discuss, debate and decide on issues of strength identification, problems and solutions.

(B) a consensus planning tool to arrive at decisions on issues, for instance man-power requirement, by involving group of experts through blind rounds of communication

(C) a majority based decision making tool

(D) None of the above

---

**11. Which pattern reflects a pure executive form of management ?**

(A) Functional

(B) Line

(C) Line and Staff

(D) Committee

---

**12. “A place for everything, everything in its place” is**

(A) American Management

(B) 5s Practice

(C) Peter Principle

(D) A Chinese Practice

---

**13. ‘Appreciative Enquiry’ is**

(A) Psychological Theory

(B) Training Method

(C) Business etiquette

(D) HR Quality

---

**14. Robert Keplan is associated with**

(A) A Benchmark Practice

(B) Balanced Score Card

(C) Kaizen

(D) Quality of Life

---

**15. Strategic Intent of an Organization should clearly spell out**

(A) Who we are

(B) Where are we going in the long term

(C) How will we measure the performance

(D) All of the above

---

**16. In an endeavour to maximize corporate value, a finance manager has to factor in the following**

(A) Optimization Principle

(B) Risk-return Principle

(C) Marginal Principle

(D) All the above

---

**17. The term financial engineering is related to**

(A) Cost of production

(B) Financial restructuring

(C) Product planning

(D) Capital issue

---

**18. Value of the merged firm shall be**

(A) Less than the acquired firm

(B) More than the acquirer

(C) Greater than the target and the acquirer

(D) None of the above

---

**19. When borrowing is less than equity, the company is said to be**

(A) Trading on equity

(B) Trading on thick equity

(C) Trading on thin equity

(D) None of these

---

**20. Match the following : List – I (Types of Debt) vs List – II (Elements). I. Secured debt - 1. Mortgage on Assets. II. Unsecured debt - 2. Non-mortgage on Assets. III. Convertible debt - 3. Option. IV. Redeemable debt - 4. Payment. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 1 3 2 4

(B) 2 1 3 4

(C) 3 1 4 2

(D) 1 2 3 4

---

**21. It is a set of procedures and sources used by managers to obtain everyday information about developments in the marketing environment. It is known as**

(A) Internal Records System

(B) Marketing Intelligence System

(C) Marketing Research System

(D) Marketing Decision Support System

---

**22. Match the List – I with List – II : List – I (Stage of the product life cycle) vs List – II (Marketing strategy applied in the stage of the product life cycle). I. Introduction Stage - 1. Market Modification. II. Growth Stage - 2. Rapid Skimming Strategy. III. Maturity Stage - 3. Enter New Market Segments. IV. Decline Stage - 4. Continuation Strategy. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 3 2 4 1

(B) 2 3 1 4

(C) 2 3 4 1

(D) 4 2 1 3

---

**23. It has been described as a cluster of complementary goods and services that are closely related in the minds of consumers but are spread across a diverse set of industries. It is known as**

(A) Market Place

(B) Market Space

(C) Meta-Market

(D) Marketing Mix

---

**24. Company’s ability to provide individually differentiated product for each consumer is called as**

(A) Digitalization

(B) Disintermediation

(C) Customerization

(D) Connectivity

---

**25. The qualitative value of an exposure through a given medium is related to**

(A) Reach

(B) Frequency

(C) Impact

(D) All of the above

---

**26. When work stations are arranged according to the progressive steps by which the product is produced, it is called a**

(A) Functional layout

(B) Process layout

(C) Job shop layout

(D) Product layout

---

**27. If for a demand process suited to a = 0.1 we try to fit a forecasting procedure with a = 0.3, the forecast will**

(A) Show large swings up and down

(B) Follow the demand better, consequently reducing forecast errors

(C) Show a pronounced behaviour

(D) None of the above

---

**28. CRAFT considers exchanges of locations for those departments which**

(A) have the same area

(B) have a common border

(C) either (A) or (B)

(D) have same costs per unit of distance

---

**29. If the ordering costs are over-estimated by 50 percent and carrying costs are under-estimated by 50 percent, the total annual cost will exceed the optimum cost by**

(A) 73.2 per cent

(B) 50 per cent

(C) 0 per cent

(D) 150 per cent

---

**30. PERT/CPM network analysis can be used for**

(A) Project appraisal

(B) Project implementation

(C) Project monitoring and control

(D) All of the above

---

**31. If P(A) = 2/3, P(B) = 1/2, P(A/B) = 1/3, then the value of P(B/A) is**

(A) 1/2

(B) 1/3

(C) 1/4

(D) 1/5

---

**32. The level of significance is the probability of committing the**

(A) Type I error

(B) Type II error

(C) Standard error

(D) Probable error

---

**33. The two lines of regression are 3x + 2y = 26 and 6x + y = 31 then the mean of x is**

(A) 3

(B) 4

(C) 6

(D) 7

---

**34. For which distribution(s) Mean and Median are equal ? (i) Binomial Distribution; (ii) Poisson Distribution; (iii) Exponential Distribution; or (iv) Normal Distribution. Codes :**

(A) (i)

(B) (ii)

(C) (i) & (iii)

(D) (ii) & (iv)

---

**35. The type of transmission channel which can transmit data in one direction only is known as**

(A) Simplex

(B) Half Duplex

(C) Full Duplex

(D) Half Simplex

---

**36. Eliminate – reduce – raise – create grid is germane to**

(A) Competitive Strategy

(B) Blue Ocean Strategy

(C) Red Ocean Strategy

(D) None of the above

---

**37. Match the following : List – I vs List – II. I. Ansoff - 1. Case competency. II. C.K. Prahlad - 2. Management by Objectives. III. Peter F. Drucker - 3. Cascade Approach. IV. Alfred Chandler - 4. Structure follows Strategy. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 1 3 2 4

(B) 2 3 1 4

(C) 3 1 2 4

(D) 4 2 3 1

---

**38. Growth strategy requires that a firm should**

(A) realign its product market environment

(B) acquire new firm

(C) go for new product development

(D) expand the market

---

**39. Michael Porter’s five forces model belongs to**

(A) Planning School

(B) Positioning School

(C) Cognitive School

(D) Competitive Strategy School

---

**40. The theory of business of an organization is embodied in**

(A) Vision

(B) Mission Statement

(C) Objectives

(D) Policies

---

**41. Service Sector is also called**

(A) Primary Sector

(B) Secondary Sector

(C) Tertiary Sector

(D) None of the above

---

**42. The definition of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India is based on**

(A) Total Sales of the Unit

(B) Investment in machines and equipments

(C) Market coverage

(D) Export capacity

---

**43. Which one of the following agencies has the power to declare any industrial unit as a potentially sick unit ?**

(A) BIFR

(B) SIDBI

(C) IRCI

(D) FICCI

---

**44. The headquarters of the SIDBI is in**

(A) Mumbai

(B) Lucknow

(C) New Delhi

(D) Hyderabad

---

**45. In MSMED Act, 2006, the investment limit for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises have been prescribed as**

(A) ₹ 10 lakhs, ₹ 5 crores and ₹ 10 crores

(B) ₹ 5 lakhs, ₹ 1 crore and ₹ 10 crores

(C) ₹ 5 lakhs, ₹ 1 crore and ₹ 5 crores

(D) ₹ 10 lakhs, ₹ 10 crores and ₹ 15 crores

---

**46. The study of moral principles or values that determine whether actions are right or wrong and outcomes are good or bad refers to following :**

(A) Quality

(B) Ethics

(C) Opinions

(D) Controls

---

**47. Match List – I with List – II : List – I (Terms relating to Ethics) vs List – II (Conceptual description of terms relating to Ethics). I. Ethical Climate - 1. Each society’s view of ethics must be considered legitimate and ethical. II. Ethical Relativism - 2. There are basic moral principles that transcend cultural and political boundaries. III. Ethical Universalism - 3. People pick-up subtle hints and clues that tell them what behaviour is approved and what is forbidden. IV. Ethical Convergence - 4. There are growing pressures on international business to follow the same rules in managing ethical behaviour and social responsibility. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 3 1 2 4

(B) 1 3 2 4

(C) 1 4 3 2

(D) 4 1 2 3

---

**48. An organization’s moral obligation toward all of its stakeholders is referred as following :**

(A) Value in workplace

(B) Corporate social responsibility

(C) Ethical behaviour

(D) Professionalism

---

**49. ________is the manager’s dilemma when he has to decide on the commercial proposal submitted by his son.**

(A) Favouritism

(B) Moral Dilemma

(C) Conflict of Interest

(D) None of the above

---

**50. “Make use of paper bags instead of plastic bags.” It is related to**

(A) Environmental Ethics

(B) Green Marketing

(C) Socially Responsible Marketing

(D) Social Marketing

---
