**1. Price elasticity of demand is best defined as :**

(A) The change in the tastes of consumers at different prices  
(B) The rate of response of demand to a change in supply  
(C) The rate of response of demand to a change in price  
(D) The rate of change of demand to a change in price

---

**2. Giffen goods are those goods :**

(A) For which demand increases as price increases  
(B) Which are in short supply  
(C) Which have high income elasticity of demand  
(D) Which give rise to a decrease in demand

---

**3. The situation where the market consists of only two buyers, then it is called :**

(A) Monopsony  
(B) Duopsony  
(C) Monopoly  
(D) Duopoly

---

**4. In India, which method is used to measure National Income in service sector ?**

(A) Expenditure method  
(B) Income method  
(C) Out put method  
(D) Value added method

---

**5. Short run cost curves are influenced by :**

(A) Principles of return to scale  
(B) Economies of scale  
(C) Law of variable proportion  
(D) Diseconomies of scale

---

**6. The term opportunity cost refers to :**

(A) Variable cost  
(B) Short run cost  
(C) Cost of one product in terms of production of others forgone  
(D) Cost related to an optimum level of production

---

**7. Which of the following is not one of the ego states of transactional analysis :**

(A) Child  
(B) Young  
(C) Adult  
(D) Parents

---

**8. Where anchors are illustrations that help to define as superior, average or below average, the behaviour of the employee, the rating scale is known as :**

(A) Behavioural expectation scale  
(B) Behavioural observation scale  
(C) Forced choice description  
(D) Grading scale

---

**9. In the decision tree model of vroom and yetton the style when the leader shares the problem with subordinates as a group, obtains collective ideas, and then makes the decision is identified as :**

(A) A I  
(B) A I I  
(C) C I  
(D) C I I

---

**10. Leaders who provide individualised consideration and intellectual stimulation and who possess charisma is known as :**

(A) Transactional Leaders  
(B) Transformational Leaders  
(C) Situational Leaders  
(D) Visionary Leaders

---

**11. The drive to become what one is capable of becoming is :**

(A) Self-Awareness  
(B) Self-Actualisation  
(C) Self-Efficiency  
(D) Self-Esteem

---

**12. Which of the following is not one of the career anchors :**

(A) Managerial competence  
(B) Technical - functional competence  
(C) Personal competence  
(D) Security

---

**13. Theory “ Z ” has been propounded by :**

(A) Mc Gregor  
(B) Ouchi  
(C) Maslow  
(D) Skinner

---

**14. Which of the following is not within the scope of “Adjudication” ?**

(A) Conciliation  
(B) Labour Court  
(C) Industrial Tribunal  
(D) National Tribunal

---

**15. Outplacement services are provided to employees who have been :**

(A) Dismissed  
(B) Rendered surplus  
(C) Retired  
(D) Given voluntary retirement

---

**16. What notice period is required for going on strike/lockout in public utility services ?**

(A) One week  
(B) Three weeks  
(C) Six weeks  
(D) Nine weeks

---

**17. Modifying methods of performing a job to reduce the levels of skill or skills demanded is known as :**

(A) Multi - tasking  
(B) De - skilling  
(C) Multi - skilling  
(D) None of these

---

**18. The computation of NPV is based on the assumption that :**

(A) cashflows for each year remains constant  
(B) net present value can never be less than zero  
(C) intermediate cash flows are being reinvested at the discount factor  
(D) discount factor should remain constant throughout the life of the project

---

**19. For determination of cost of equity the formula used is :**

(A) Rate of interest (1 − t)  
(B) Rate of dividend (1 − t)  
(C) Rate of Dividend (Face value − Issue Price)/n  
(D) D1/P0 + g

---

**20. According to MM - Approach proposition - I, value of firm is :**

(A) independent of capital structure  
(B) dependent on capital structure  
(C) dependent on tax-rate of the enterprise  
(D) dependent on risk of the enterprise

---

**21. A stable dividend policy indicates :**

(A) Stable earning/price ratio  
(B) Stable price/earning ratio  
(C) Stable pay-out ratio  
(D) Stable earning per share

---

**22. The vertical merger represents merger of firms engaged in :**

(A) The same line of business  
(B) Different stages of production in an industry  
(C) Unrelated lines of business  
(D) All of the above

---

**23. The degree of total leverage is equal to :**

(A) percentage change in EPS/percentage change in sales  
(B) percentage change in EBIT/percentage change in sales  
(C) percentage change in EPS/percentage change in EBIT  
(D) percentage change in sales/percentage change in EBIT

---

**24. Changes in the population characteristics such as age, gender, race, marital status, income and education are the examples of :**

(A) geographic characteristics  
(B) cultural characteristics  
(C) psychographic characteristic  
(D) demographic characteristics

---

**25. Which of the following is not constituent of promotion-mix :**

(A) Advertising  
(B) Sales promotion  
(C) Direct marketing  
(D) Publicity

---

**26. Which of the following factors does not influence the pricing strategy of a firm ?**

(A) Market  
(B) Competition  
(C) Cost  
(D) R & D

---

**27. Who coined the term “Marketing Myopia” ?**

(A) Peter Drucker  
(B) Stanton  
(C) Philip Kotler  
(D) Theodore Levitt

---

**28. In the diffusion of innovation who are the people not willing to try out the product :**

(A) Innovators  
(B) Progressive people  
(C) Early adopters  
(D) early majority

---

**29. Which of the following is not a variable for segmenting the market ?**

(A) Sex  
(B) Age  
(C) Income  
(D) Sales

---

**30. At which stage of new product development process, the launching of new product will take place :**

(A) Concept development  
(B) Marketing strategy development  
(C) Test marketing  
(D) Commercialization

---

**31. Strategic production planning decisions include :**

(A) Quality development  
(B) Make or Buy decision  
(C) Manpower planning  
(D) Layout planning

---

**32. Which one of the following is not the type of Plant Layout ?**

(A) Process Layout  
(B) Product Layout  
(C) Fixed position Layout  
(D) Selection Layout

---

**33. Production control is concerned with :**

(A) Establishment of Quality Standard norms  
(B) Execution of production plan  
(C) Expediting the production process  
(D) Product Quality control

---

**34. Critical Path Method network analyses is done with the objective of :**

(A) determining the completion time for the project  
(B) determining the product quality  
(C) determining the production cost  
(D) determining the pay-back period

---

**35. ‘Q’ systems of inventory control provides for :**

(A) Ordering the inventory when it normally equals to EOQ  
(B) Ordering the inventory depending on the stock level on hand  
(C) Optimization of inventory costs  
(D) None of the above

---

**36. In case of Binomial distribution, the mean is :**

(A) Always greater than variance  
(B) Always equal to variance  
(C) Always less than variance  
(D) None of these

---

**37. Car hire firm has two cars which it hires out daily. The demand for car is distributed as Poission with mean 2. If the value of e^−2 = 0.1353, the number of days out of 100 days on which neither of the car is used are :**

(A) Approximately 14  
(B) Approximately 22  
(C) Approximately 32  
(D) None of these

---

**38. A committee of four has to be formed from among 3 Economists, 2 Managers, 4 Doctors and one Statistician. The Probability that all 4 professions are represented on the committee will be :**

(A) 14/35  
(B) 10/35  
(C) 4/35  
(D) 24/35

---

**39. Correlation Coefficient is equal to :**

(A) Arithmetic mean of both regression coefficients  
(B) Geometric mean of both regression coefficients  
(C) Difference of two regression coefficients  
(D) None of these

---

**40. When Null hypothesis (H0) is true and test rejects it, it is called :**

(A) Type - I error  
(B) Type-II error  
(C) Level of significance  
(D) None of these

---

**41. Which element identities the strategic factors that determine the future of a firm ?**

(A) Environmental Scanning  
(B) Strategy Formulation  
(C) Strategy Implementation  
(D) Strategy Evaluation and Control

---

**42. Which strategy provides a means for achieving a company’s annual objectives ?**

(A) Marketing Strategy  
(B) Operating Strategy  
(C) Business Strategy  
(D) Corporate Strategy

---

**43. Which of the following is not a primary activity in a value chain ?**

(A) Human Resource Management  
(B) Marketing and Sales  
(C) Operations  
(D) Outbound logistics

---

**44. Which one of the following represents the best long run opportunity in a firm’s business portfolio ?**

(A) Star  
(B) Question Mark  
(C) Cash COW  
(D) DOG

---

**45. A firm tries to achieve the lowest cost of production and distribution so that it can set its prices at a lower level than its competitors. Which generic strategy it is following ?**

(A) Cost leadership  
(B) Differentiation  
(C) Focus  
(D) All of the above

---

**46. Which method of product portfolio analysis helps in deciding which products are to be retained and which are not to be retained ?**

(A) Ansoff’s Matrix  
(B) Environment Matrix  
(C) BCG Matrix  
(D) All of the above

---

**47. What BIFR stands for :**

(A) Bureau of Industrial Financial Reconstruction  
(B) Board of Industrial Financial Reconstruction  
(C) Bureau of Industrial Financial Re-engineering  
(D) Board of Industrial Financial Re-engineering

---

**48. Which one of the following is not the reason for sickness of industries ?**

(A) Inadequate working capital  
(B) Huge Market  
(C) Out dated Technology  
(D) Changing tastes of consumers

---

**49. Environmental Ethics refers to :**

(A) Unfair Trade Practices  
(B) Pollution  
(C) Product price  
(D) Quality of the product

---

**50. Corporate governance includes management of :**

(A) Employees  
(B) Organisation  
(C) Society  
(D) All of the above

---
