**1. Under perfect competition in the long run**

(A) All firms earn normal profits  
(B) Few firms earn super normal profits  
(C) All firms are at break even  
(D) None of the above

---

**2. National Income at market prices is equal to**

(A) Gross national product at market prices  
(B) Gross domestic product at market prices  
(C) Net national product at factor cost  
(D) None of the above

---

**3. If there is a single buyer, it is called**

(A) Monopoly  
(B) Oligopoly  
(C) Monopsony  
(D) None of the above

---

**4. Under which of the following method the time value of money is not considered ?**

(A) Net present value method  
(B) Internal rate of return method  
(C) Pay back period method  
(D) All of the above

---

**5. A firm is having increasing returns to scale means**

(A) It is having increasing costs.  
(B) It is having constant costs.  
(C) It is having decreasing costs.  
(D) None of the above

---

**6. Production can be measured in terms of which of the following ?**

(A) Total productivity  
(B) Marginal productivity  
(C) Average productivity  
(D) All of the above

---

**7. Which of the following is an objective of human resource management ?**

(A) Productivity  
(B) Quality of work life  
(C) Organisational change  
(D) All the above

---

**8. Motivation implies that the employees in an organisation**

(A) Exert more effort to accomplish the desired goals of the organisation.  
(B) Exert more effort to accomplish the individual goals.  
(C) Exert more effort to accomplish the common goals of employees.  
(D) Exert more effort to accomplish the desired goals of the employer, employees and the Government.

---

**9. Communication can be**

(A) Oral  
(B) Written  
(C) Oral and Written  
(D) None of the above

---

**10. Which of the following is not considered as a leadership style ?**

(A) Task oriented leadership style.  
(B) Society oriented leadership style.  
(C) Employee oriented leadership style.  
(D) Autocratic leadership style

---

**11. Which of the following method has not been given a statutory form in India ?**

(A) Conciliation  
(B) Mediation  
(C) Voluntary Arbitration  
(D) Adjudication

---

**12. What are the operative functions of HRM ?**

(A) Organising  
(B) Directing  
(C) Controlling  
(D) All of the above

---

**13. Which one is not a performance appraisal method ?**

(A) 360° performance appraisal  
(B) Balanced score card  
(C) Rank method  
(D) Interview method

---

**14. Selection of persons in an organisation is the responsibility of**

(A) Security Dept.  
(B) Personnel Dept.  
(C) Trade Unions  
(D) Canteen Dept.

---

**15. Labour Welfare facilities were incorporated in which legislation ?**

(A) MRTP Act  
(B) Essential Commodities Act  
(C) Consumer Protection Act  
(D) Factories Act

---

**16. Job analysis involves**

(A) Job description and job specification  
(B) Job order and job description  
(C) Job specification and job order  
(D) Job satisfaction and job description

---

**17. Which one of the following represents number of years required to recover the initial investment ?**

(A) Accounting rate of return  
(B) Pay back period  
(C) Internal rate of return  
(D) Net present value

---

**18. Other things being equal, stocks which are highly liquid command**

(A) Higher dividend payout ratio  
(B) Lower dividend payout ratio  
(C) Higher P/E multiples  
(D) Lower P/E multiples

---

**19. Weighted Average Cost of Capital may contain I. Cost of Equity II. Cost of Debt III. Cost of goods purchased IV. Cost of initial investment Find the correct combination according to the code :**

(A) I, II & III are correct.  
(B) II, III & IV are correct.  
(C) III & IV are correct.  
(D) I & II are correct

---

**20. Long term sources of finance may contain I. Retained earnings II. Inter corporate deposits III. Debentures IV. Preference share capital Find the correct combination according to the code :**

(A) I, III & IV are correct  
(B) II, III & IV are correct  
(C) II & III are correct  
(D) II & IV are correct

---

**21. When a firm proposes to acquire another firm, the merger proposal may be viewed as a**

(A) Working capital management proposal  
(B) Capital budgeting proposal  
(C) Financing decision  
(D) Dividend decision

---

**22. Which of the following is not the element of promotion-mix ?**

(A) Advertising  
(B) Place  
(C) Personal selling  
(D) Publicity

---

**23. Which of the following is in correct order ?**

(A) Product, Place, Promotion and Price  
(B) Product, Promotion, Place and Price  
(C) Product, Price, Promotion and Place  
(D) Product, Price, Place and Promotion

---

**24. Which of the demographic variables is not used by marketers for demographic segmentation ?**

(A) Gender  
(B) Age  
(C) Occupation  
(D) Poverty

---

**25. At which stage of the new product development, the launching of new product will take place**

(A) Business Analysis  
(B) Test Marketing  
(C) Commercialization  
(D) Marketing strategy Development

---

**26. If a company uses its company name for its entire range of products offered, then it is called**

(A) Private branding  
(B) Corporate branding  
(C) Product-line branding  
(D) Specific product branding

---

**27. One-level channel of distribution consists of**

(A) Producer – consumer  
(B) Producer – dealer – consumer  
(C) Producer – dealer – retailer – consumer  
(D) Producer – dealer – wholesaler – retailer – consumer

---

**28. The primary role of a production manager is**

(A) To meet the production target and delivery schedule  
(B) To produce goods/services of right quality  
(C) To produce goods/services by right quantity at the predetermined time  
(D) All of the above

---

**29. Fixed Position Layout is used when**

(A) the operation requires heavy tools and equipments.  
(B) the operation requires only hand tools and simple equipments.  
(C) the continuity of production process is to be maintained.  
(D) none of the above

---

**30. Critical Path Method (CPM) is concerned with estimation of**

(A) Optimistic time  
(B) Production lead time  
(C) Pessimistic time  
(D) None of the above

---

**31. In a normal distribution, mean (m) ± 3σ (3 standard deviation) limits contains approximately**

(A) 99.73% of the observations  
(B) 99.27% of the observations  
(C) 96% of the observations  
(D) 95% of the observations

---

**32. Firms choose a focus strategy to serve the needs of which of the following ?**

(A) Buyers group  
(B) Different-segment of a product line  
(C) Different geographical market  
(D) All of the above

---

**33. Which of the following is not the component of work study ?**

(A) Work measurement  
(B) Case study  
(C) Time study  
(D) Motion study

---

**34. Half percent of the letters mailed in a city have incorrect addresses. Out of 200 such letters mailed in a day, the probability of finding at most 3 incorrect addresses is**

(A) 3e/8  
(B) 8/3 e^-1  
(C) 1/6 e^-1  
(D) 5/2 e^-1

---

**35. If X is a random variable normally distributed with mean u and variance σ², then the mean deviation about mean is given by**

(A) 1 / √(2π)  
(B) σ √(2/π)  
(C) σ / √(2π)  
(D) √(2)σ

---

**36. The level of significance is the probability of committing**

(A) type I error  
(B) type II error  
(C) standard error  
(D) probable error

---

**37. Which of the following tests is used to test a hypothesis about the mean of a univariate normal distribution with unknown variance ?**

(A) Normal test  
(B) Student’s test  
(C) Paired t-test  
(D) Chi-square test

---

**38. Mean and variance of Binomial Distribution are (Where the terms have usual statistical meaning)**

(A) m and σ²  
(B) m and nq  
(C) m and np  
(D) np and npq

---

**39. Which of the following is the characteristic of a strategic business unit ?**

(A) It serves a homogenous set of markets.  
(B) It serves a unique set of products.  
(C) It owns responsibility for its own profitability.  
(D) All of the above.

---

**40. Which one of the following is not a generic strategy ?**

(A) Cost Leadership  
(B) Product Differentiation  
(C) Cost focus  
(D) Group focus

---

**41. A retrenchment strategy is designed to reduce**

(A) technical losses  
(B) financial losses  
(C) the scale and scope of the business operation  
(D) all of the above

---

**42. World Trade Organisation provides**

(A) Rule based multilateral trading system.  
(B) Equity and social justice to the people.  
(C) Rule based regional trading system  
(D) All of the above

---

**43. Sick enterprise is referred to**

(A) CII  
(B) RBI  
(C) SIDBI  
(D) BIFR

---

**44. Ethical values are derived from**

(A) Corporate philosophy  
(B) Organisational culture  
(C) Corporate objectives  
(D) The religious books

---

**45. Which of the following is not related to business ethics ?**

(A) Social responsibility of business  
(B) Environmental ethics  
(C) Ecological consciousness  
(D) Profiteering

---

**46. Which of the following is the cause of sickness of an enterprise ?**

(A) Lack of adequate capital  
(B) Lack of demand for the products  
(C) Lack of raw material  
(D) All of the above

---

**47. Value driven companies are**

(A) sure to be successful in the long run.  
(B) sure to be unsuccessful as they are not maximising profits.  
(C) sure to become charitable institutions.  
(D) none of the above

---

**48. Which of the following is not a tool of corporate governance ?**

(A) Preparation of financial statements  
(B) Appointment of independent directors.  
(C) Compulsory audit of financial statements.  
(D) Time bound promotion of employees.

---

**49. Which of the following is not the social responsibility of the business ?**

(A) Promotion of Markets  
(B) Promotion of Green Environment  
(C) Promotion of Education  
(D) Promotion of Public Health

---

**50. The Business Code of Conduct provides guidance to managers and employees**

(A) when they encounter an ethical dilemma.  
(B) for improving their technical skills.  
(C) for pursuing their business goals.  
(D) All of the above

---
