**1. During last five years per capita income of India is increasing, that means**

(A) National income growth of India is more than growth of population.

(B) Growth in population is more than the growth in National income of India.

(C) National income of India & population of India have grown at the uniform rate.

(D) All of the above

---

**2. In the short run firm considers the minimum of its average variable cost curve as**

(A) Break-even point

(B) Shutdown point

(C) Economies of scope

(D) None of the above

---

**3. The positive cross elasticity of demand between two products means**

(A) two products are substitutes

(B) two products are complementary

(C) two products are neither substitutes nor complementary

(D) none of the above

---

**4. A monopolist always operates in the**

(A) Inelastic segment of its demand curve

(B) Elastic segment of its demand curve

(C) Unitary elastic segment of its demand curve

(D) None of the above

---

**5. The price elasticity of demand for any product in the long run**

(A) is more than it’s short run value.

(B) is less than its short run value.

(C) is same as its short run value.

(D) None of the above.

---

**6. Earnings foregone in the context of the best alternative is termed as**

(A) Past cost

(B) Historical cost

(C) Opportunity cost

(D) Sunk cost

---

**7. A situation where management is unable to provide employment due to non-availability of work is called I. Lock out II. Lay off III. Termination IV. Closure Find the correct combination according to the code.**

(A) I & II

(B) II & III

(C) I & III

(D) II & IV

---

**8. Which one of the settlement methods is not relevant here for disputes ?**

(A) Collective Bargaining

(B) Compulsory Adjudication

(C) Voluntary Arbitration

(D) Reference to Civil Court

---

**9. Which of the following shows a situation of Trade Union rivalries in India ?**

(A) Different Unions in different organisations.

(B) More unions in the same organisation having affiliation with different political parties and representing the same type of workers.

(C) More unions in the same organisation all representing different types of workers.

(D) None of the above.

---

**10. Reduction of Labour Force is called**

(A) Termination

(B) Retrenchment

(C) Lay-off

(D) Right sizing

---

**11. The process of establishing the value of jobs in a job hierarchy is known as (I) Job analysis (II) Job requirement (III) Job evaluation (IV) Performance evaluation Find the correct combination according to the code.**

(A) I & II

(B) II & III

(C) III & IV

(D) I & IV

---

**12. Which of the following is the meaning of Human Resource Planning ?**

(A) Evaluation of job

(B) Satisfaction of the employees on the job

(C) Appraising the performance of employees

(D) It is the process by which an organisation ensures that it has the right number and kind of people at the right place, at the right time.

---

**13. Induction refers to**

(A) Giving training to the employees.

(B) Giving incentive to the employees.

(C) Introducing employees to the organisation culture and situation.

(D) Increasing the morale of the employees.

---

**14. Which of the following is not a fringe benefit ?**

(A) Transport

(B) Subsidised canteen facilities

(C) Free education to the children

(D) Dearness Allowance

---

**15. ‘X’ and ‘Y’ theory was prepared by**

(A) Herzbeg

(B) Maslow

(C) Porter and Lawler

(D) McGregor

---

**16. Which of the following formula is used to calculate Pay Back Period when cash inflows are constant ?**

(A) Fixed Assets/Current Assets

(B) Fixed Assets/Current Liabilities

(C) Initial Investment cost/Annual cash inflows

(D) None of the above

---

**17. The P/E ratio approach to stock valuation is also known as**

(A) Earnings multiplier approach

(B) Dividend discounting approach

(C) Required rate of return

(D) None of the above

---

**18. The capital structure theories which argue that capital structure is relevant to the value of firm contain I. Net Income Approach II. Net Operating Income Approach III. Traditional Approach IV. Modigliani and Miller Approach Find the correct combination according to the code :**

(A) I & II are correct.

(B) I & III are correct.

(C) III & IV are correct.

(D) II & IV are correct.

---

**19. Short term financing instruments may contain I. Commercial Paper II. Public Deposits III. Term Loans IV. Trade Credit Find the correct combination according to the code.**

(A) I, II & III are correct.

(B) II, III & IV are correct.

(C) III & IV are correct.

(D) I, II & IV are correct.

---

**20. For calculating weighted average cost of capital, cost of each source of capital is multiplied by proportion applicable to it. The proportions may be based on**

(A) Book values only

(B) Target capital structure only

(C) Market values only

(D) All of the above

---

**21. Which of the following is not included in 7 P’s of services marketing ?**

(A) Process

(B) People

(C) Pricing

(D) Public relations

---

**22. Which of the following is not a stage in the new product development ?**

(A) Generation of ideas

(B) Business analysis

(C) Market segmentation

(D) Test marketing

---

**23. Industrial marketing involves**

(A) Business to Business

(B) Business to Customer

(C) Customer to Customer

(D) Retailer to Consumer

---

**24. The concept of Marketing Myopia is propounded by**

(A) Philip Kotler

(B) C.K. Prahalada

(C) Peter Drucker

(D) Theodore Levitt

---

**25. In which stage of product life cycle, the company takes decision whether to maintain, harvest or drop the product ?**

(A) Introduction

(B) Growth

(C) Maturity

(D) Decline

---

**26. Which of the following is the best technique to manage the existing products ?**

(A) Ansoff Matrix

(B) Balanced score card

(C) BCG Matrix

(D) Product life cycle analysis

---

**27. Which of the following is not an element of production management ?**

(A) Plant

(B) Profit

(C) Process

(D) People

---

**28. Production Management Tactical Planning decisions include**

(A) Establishing parameters for measuring operational efficiency and productivity.

(B) Establishing quality specifications and test details.

(C) Determining starting and finishing time of each job in the work stations.

(D) None of the above

---

**29. Work study refers to**

(A) Analysis of work into smaller parts followed by re-arrangement of these parts to give the same effectiveness at lesser cost.

(B) Analytical investigation of the methods involved in the work.

(C) Developing new methods to give work effectiveness.

(D) All of the above

---

**30. Economic lot size is known as**

(A) the lot size for which the total cost per time period is minimum.

(B) the ordering cost and carrying cost are minimum.

(C) the lot size that strikes a balance between ordering cost and carrying cost.

(D) the quantity to be ordered each time is fixed.

---

**31. Objective of Value Engineering is**

(A) Reduce cost without reducing the quality.

(B) Increase value without increasing the cost.

(C) Reduce cost by reducing the quality.

(D) None of the above

---

**32. If the independent variates xi (i = 1, 2, …..n) are normally distributed about a common mean, a, with a common variance, σ2, their mean is also normally distributed about a, but with a variance**

(A) nσ2

(B) σ2 / n

(C) (σ2)n

(D) σn / 2

---

**33. The weak law of large numbers is another version of**

(A) convergence in probability

(B) random number generation

(C) financial probability law

(D) poisson probability law

---

**34. The basic assumptions underlying the t-test for the difference of two sample means are that the parent populations are ___________ and population variances are ___________**

(A) of any shape; equal and known

(B) normal; equal and known

(C) normal; equal but unknown

(D) normal; unequal but known

---

**35. LAN stands for**

(A) Large Area Network

(B) Local Area Network

(C) Long Accurate Network

(D) Lay Access Network

---

**36. If X is normally distributed with mean 30 and s.d. 5 and Φ(x) denotes 1/√(2π) ∫ (from 0 to x) e^(-1/2 t^2) dt then P(26 ≤ X ≤ 40) and P (X ≥ 45) are given by**

(A) Φ(.8) + Φ(.2) and Φ(3) – 1/2

(B) Φ(2) – Φ(.8) and 1/2 – Φ(3)

(C) Φ(2) – Φ(.8) and 1/2 + Φ(3)

(D) Φ(.8) + Φ(2) and 1/2 – Φ(3)

---

**37. What enables the management to find out whether the strategic management process are appropriate, compatible and functioning in the desirable direction ?**

(A) Implementation control

(B) Special alert control

(C) Premise control

(D) Strategic control

---

**38. Which one is not the part of Michael Porter’s five forces model ?**

(A) Threat of substitutes

(B) Firm’s core competence

(C) Rivalry among existing players

(D) Threat of new entrants

---

**39. Which of the following strategy is regarded unfair ?**

(A) Collusion

(B) Strategic alliance

(C) Differentiation

(D) Turn around strategy

---

**40. Which of the following relationship strategies result into forming of a new organisation ?**

(A) Strategic alliance

(B) Partnership

(C) Joint venture

(D) None of the above

---

**41. A growth strategy is designed to increase**

(A) the scale and scope of the Business operations.

(B) the corporate image of the business.

(C) corporate social responsibility of business.

(D) none of the above.

---

**42. Cost leadership strategy is related to**

(A) Functional strategy

(B) SBU strategy

(C) Corporate strategy

(D) Global strategy

---

**43. Countries derive their competitive advantage in international trade through their**

(A) Comparative cost advantage

(B) Contribution to the World trade

(C) Natural endowments

(D) All of the above

---

**44. Which analysis helps to understand the strength and weaknesses of a firm ?**

(A) Environment analysis

(B) Business analysis

(C) SWOT analysis

(D) None of the above

---

**45. Which one of the following is not the social responsibility of business ?**

(A) Adopting village for development.

(B) Providing drinking water and medical facilities in remote villages.

(C) Construction of Temples.

(D) Opening in House R & D department.

---

**46. What is the acronym for SIDBI ?**

(A) Short Investment Development Bank of India.

(B) Stock Investment Development Bank of India.

(C) Small Investment Development Bank of India.

(D) Small Industries Development Bank of India.

---

**47. Identify from the options given below, which one is not a source of business ethics ?**

(A) Religion

(B) Legal system

(C) Culture

(D) Political system

---

**48. Where law fails,**

(A) Ethics also fails

(B) Ethics can succeed

(C) Government can protect

(D) None of the above

---

**49. Which one of the options is not an ethical issue for an organisation ?**

(A) Save water

(B) Save energy

(C) Save money

(D) Respect woman

---

**50. Which of the following is an example of an external threat ?**

(A) Economies of scale

(B) Decreased competition

(C) New Trade Regulations

(D) Global sales potential

---
